---
title: Mutual Funds
description: An investment product
date: 2023-04-16
lastmod: 2023-04-16
---

# Mutual Funds

A mutual fund is an investment product that pools money from a group of investors to purchase different securities

You can invest in various financial securities like:

- Stocks
- Bonds
- Gold
- Money market

When you buy a unit in a mutual fund, you own a small stake in all the investments included in the fund

- Mutual funds can be an ideal investment choice given their ease of use and the advantages they offer

Asset Management Companies (AMCs) manage and operate many mutual fund schemes. Each scheme has a specific investment objective catering to distinct investment needs

Based on the fund's objective, the money collected from investors is placed in various avenues such as stocks, gold, bonds and other securities. A finance professional known as a fund manager whose goal is to earn optimum returns on the fund's investments oversees each fund. The income generated by the fund is divided and distributed among the investors proportionately

- Net Asset Value (NAV)
  AUM
  NFO

## Types of Mutual Funds

Funds based on asset class:

1. Debt funds: Debt funds (also known as fixed-income funds) invest in assets like government securities, corporate bonds and money market instruments. These funds generally aim to **offer regular returns** to the investor and are considered **relatively stable**. Debt funds are ideal if your purpose is to earn a steady income and hesitant to take a huge risk

2. Equity funds: In contrast, equity funds invest a primary portion of your money in stocks. Capital appreciation is an essential objective for these funds. But since the returns on equity funds are linked to market movements, they hold **higher risk**. Equity funds can be a right choice for **long-term goals** - retirement planning or buying a house - due to its risk with the investment spread over a long period of time

3. Hybrid funds: If you want equity as well as debt in your investment, hybrid funds can be the answer. They invest in a mix of equity and fixed-income securities. Based on their asset allocation, hybrid funds are further classified into six categories:

   - **Conservative hybrid fund**: The scheme invests around 75-90% of assets in debt instruments and just about 10-25% in equity or equity related instruments

   - **Balanced hybrid fund**: The scheme invests about 40-60% in equity and 40-60% in debt instruments

   - **Aggressive hybrid fund**: Invests between 65-80% in equities and between 20-35% in debt instruments

   - **Dynamic asset allocation fund**: Invests both in equity and debt and the fund allocation is managed based on pre-defined market indicators

   - **Multi-asset allocation**: Invests in at least three asset classes with a minimum allocation of at least 10% each in all three asset classe

   - **Arbitrage fund**: The fund follows an arbitrage strategy and invests a minimum of 65% in equities / equity related instruments

   - **Equity savings fund**: Invests at least 65% of assets in equity and at least 10% in debt instruments

Funds based on structure:

1. Open-ended mutual funds: Open-ended funds are mutual funds where an investor can invest at any time. These funds are bought and sold at their Net Asset Value (NAV). Open-ended funds can be a good liquid option as **you can purchase and redeem the fund units at any time**. Most mutual funds in the market are open-ended funds

2. Close-ended mutual funds: Close-ended funds come with a pre-defined maturity period. Investors can invest in the fund only when it is launched. And after investing, they can withdraw their money only at the time of maturity. These funds are listed just like shares in the stock market. However, they are not regarded as liquid because trading volumes are less

3. Interval funds: Interval funds contain features of both close-ended and open-ended funds. These funds don’t permit investors to buy or sell units anytime. There are certain pre-decided time periods or intervals during which you can buy and redeem your funds. These funds invest in both debt and equity securities

Funds based on investment objective:

1. Growth funds: The main purpose of growth funds is capital appreciation. These funds put a significant portion of the money in stocks and growth sectors. However, they can be **risky**; hence, it is recommended to have a long-term horizon when investing in them. And if, for instance, you are nearing your retirement, you could avoid growth funds

2. Income funds: As the name suggests, income funds try to provide investors with a regular income. These are debt funds that invest in bonds, debentures, commercial papers, government securities and certificate of deposits, among others. They can be a source of income in the **short-term for low risk investors**. Based on your investment horizon and risk appetite, you can also invest in duration funds. These are **open ended debt schemes** that invest in debt and money market instruments

   | Fund type                    | Portfolio investment duration |
   | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
   | Ultra-short duration fund    | between 3-6 months            |
   | Low duration fund            | between 6 months to 1 year    |
   | Short duration fund          | between 1-3 years             |
   | Medium duration fund         | between 3-4 years             |
   | Medium to long duration fund | between 4-7 years             |
   | Long duration fund           | greater than 7 years          |

3. Liquid funds: Liquid funds aim to provide liquidity to the investor. These funds put money in short-term money-market instruments like treasury bills, Certificate of Deposits (CDs), term deposits, commercial papers, and so on. Liquid funds can be an option if you want to park your surplus money for the short term or create an emergency fund

   - Overnight funds are another interesting option you can consider if liquidity is your priority. These are open-ended debt mutual funds that invest in securities having a maturity of just one day. This makes overnight funds highly liquid. These funds come with very low risk as they are not impacted by changes in interest rates. Overnight funds are suitable for those investors who want to park a large sum of money for a short period.

4. **Tax-saving funds**: Tax-saving funds offer tax benefits in the form of tax rebates under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act. When you invest in these funds, you can claim deductions up to Rs 1.5 Lakh each year. Tax-saving funds can be suitable if your primary investment goal is to save tax. Equity Linked Saving Scheme (ELSS) funds are an example of tax-saving funds

## Portfolio

- Large-cap mutual funds

  - Low Risk
  - Long-Term (5+ years)
  - Reliance, Tata, Infosys, Wipro, Asian paints, Big companies

- Mid-cap mutual funds

  - Medium Risk
  - Long-Term (5+ years)

- Small-cap mutual funds

  - High Rish
  - Long-Term (5+ years)

- Balanced Large-cap mutual funds

  - Low Risk
  - Mid-Term (2-5 years)

- Balanced/Hybrid Large-cap mutual funds

  - Medium Risk
  - Mid-Term (2-5 years)

- Multi-cap mutual funds

  - High Risk
  - Mid-Term (2-5 years)

- Debt mutual funds

  - Low Risk
  - Short-Term (0.5-2 years)

- Liquid funds

  - Medium Risk
  - Short-Term (0.5-2 years)

- Hybrid funds

  - High Risk
  - Short-Term (0.5-2 years)

- 70% Low + 25% Medium + 5% High
- 65% Low + 20% Medium + 15% High

HDFC Index Nifty 50 Plan
HDFC Mid-Cap Opportunities Fund
HDFC Small Cap Fund

HDFC Liquid Fund

HDFC Hybrid Equity Fund

If Mutual fund growth is less than or equal to Nifty 50 for 2 years then quit that mutual fund

## New Fund Offer (NFO)

It is a first-time subscription offer for a new scheme that has been launched by an asset management company

- Not that good for beginners
- High risk

## Expenses

1. Expense ration
2. Exit load

Tax:

1. Short-term capital gain tax (Within 1 year): 15%
2. Long-term capital gain ta (More than 1 year): 10%
