# Hello

Myself Prabhu Hiremath, Nice to meet you :)

We are here to have an evaluation.

Tell me about yourself/Introduce yourself

1. Check resume and ask about the experience:

   - What type of experience has the candidate had (team/organization size, practices, scale of products developed, how long have they used relevant, etc.)

   - What roles and responsibilities have the candidate performed design implementation vs implement other designs, technical leadership, management, etc.)

   - What type of person is the candidate in terms of general behaviour and personality (can we explain what they have done, can they communicate clearly, do they appear arrogant, etc.)

2. Check for:

   - Technical ability
   - Seniority and type of role the candidate could fill (Engineer vs Senior Engineer: Backend/Frontend/Fullstack)
   - How much experience in the various areas of the role (for instance how much professional experience with .NET Core or React)
   - Identify the candidate's areas of expertise (or lack of) and the breadth and depth of their technical knowledge.

3. Frontend: (Angular 10)

   - 1, 2, **at last 3 and 4**
   - Angular: 16, 2, 3, 5, 18, 19, 23, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 22, 24, 25, 26, 21.

   - JS: 2, 5, 6, 7, 14, 15, 22, 18, 19, 24, 21, 3, 4, 20, 25, 27, 26, 28
   - HTML: 1, 3, 4, , 7.
   - CSS: 13, 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15, 16

4. Backend:

   - C#: 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55. | 3, 9, 36, 44
   - LINQ: 47, 48, 49, 56
   - ASP.NET Core: 2, 6, 49, 55, 19, 51, 52, 53, 56, 57

5. General:

   - How do you stay up to date with tech?
   - What's a piece of tech you're excited about/would like to use?
   - Where do you see yourself a few years down the road?
   - Why do you want to join TCS?

6. Closing:

   - Do you have any questions for me?
   - Thank you for participating in the interview process
   - We will let you know if your profile matches with our requirements
